# 2026-07-13 Language analysis
## Branching 
I feel like the solution has reached a level of maturity that I can start branching now and working on feature branches. Earlier, I was just pushing everything straight to main, and, while I could keep doing that, branching helps to keep my changes focused and self-contained. If something goes irreparably wrong, I can just get rid of the branch, and it should also help focus my commit history in main (as long as I limit merge types). 

## Language processing 
I want to build a service for analysing a user's langauge usage in the background. It's going to be built in python because python has a stronger NLP ecosystem than .Net, but everything else will be in .Net. The idea is to create a dedicated python deployable that does the NLP heavy lifting, but all data persistence etc. will be done by the .Net server. 

For now, my base use case is storing a user's vocabulary. This in itself is complicated and I have to make decisions about storing lemmas, tokens, stems etc. but I think it's simple enough to develop in one slice. I will start with the happy path and then work on handling misspellings and other invalid stuff. Thankfully, we already have an event driven architecture, so backgrounding this is easy. 

One of the questions I had was whether I should analyse submissions or in the database, or send the content of the submission to the python service. My first thought is that the python service shouldn't have access to the server database. It's purely for processing and not persistence. It shouldn't persist anything itself, rather it should take in data and send data out. The other question in this regard is what should the event store that gets raised when a submission gets made. Should it store the id of the submission, or should it store the content of the submission? At the moment it doesn't matter too much because submissions are immutable, but we could run into data inconsistency later down the line if the submission is mutable. At this point, I don't expect to make perfect decisions because I can't predict everything that might happen, so I just have to try to make good decisions. 

My other thought is that submissions should be immutable to provide a record of improvement. You can go through all your past submissions to see what they used to be like, and that could keep track how well you're doing. Editing and versioning just makes things more complicated, and that's complexity that I don't want to introduce just yet (only when it needs to be). 

Current thoughts: event stores submission id. Event table doesn't store submission content for a couple of reasons: to prevent data leaks and to decrease amount of data stored. We can always change the payload of the event later if we add a new version processor, but I think this should help. The language analysis stuff is also in the same language practice bounded context, so it should be fine for the processor to access the language practice database (it's all the same database at the moment, but later we might want microservices and I think it helps to try to keep bounded context quite cleanly separated). On the data side, I feel like we'll want to start encrypting submissions to protect data more later. 

## Plan
There are a couple of moving pieces here that we can tackle separately. First off, there's a language submission event to raise when a language submission gets created. We'll need an event handler to handle that event. The event handler will depend on a language processor interface, the implementation of which will be a python service that could be built with fastapi, but we can use a dummy service for now. We'll want to start thinking about the shape of the data that the service returns. The python service should return structured data that the processing service can save in the database somewhere. 

I'm going to start with the event and then the event consumer. 